---
layout: home
---
# Version 2023.11.1.129 
Downloads: [Windows](https://gms.yoyogames.com/GameMaker-Installer-2023.11.1.129.exe) - [macOS](https://gms.yoyogames.com/GameMaker-2023.11.1.129.pkg) -  [Ubuntu (Beta)](https://gms.yoyogames.com/GameMaker-Beta-2023.1100.0.450.deb)

Our final release of the year 2023.11 brings lots of behind the scenes performance improvements to both the IDE and Runtime. Various new functions have been added to expand what you can do with buffers and rooms. Following on from the SDF Effects added last release, you can now apply these effects to text tracks within your Sequences.

[Issues Resolved](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/milestone/4?closed=1)


## IDE Features
- [[#1082]](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Feature-Requests/issues/1082) Export your very own Opera GX Game Strip
- [[#1104]](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Feature-Requests/issues/1104) SDF Effects can now be added to text tracks in a sequence
- [[#1113]](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Feature-Requests/issues/1113) GMRT updated are now handled by the GameMaker Package Manager

## Runtime Features
- [[#1430]](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Feature-Requests/issues/2083) Various compiler optimisations to speed up building and execution
- [[#1112]](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Feature-Requests/issues/1112) Buffers, Vertex Buffers, Vertex Formats, and Surfaces now have typed handles
- [[#1114]](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Feature-Requests/issues/1114) Vertex buffers can now be modified after they have been created and filled
- [[#603]](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Feature-Requests/issues/603) room_get_info will return all the information about a given room
- [[#1298]](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Feature-Requests/issues/1298) You can now copy strided data from one buffer to another

## Issues Resolved
- [2023.11.0](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/milestone/4?closed=1)
- [2023.11.1](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/milestone/9?closed=1)

## Misc New Functions

- `room_get_info(index,[views],[instances],[layers],[layer_elements],[tilemap_data])` - This function can be used to get all the information on a room. It returns a struct that contains data that has been requested, a room can be very large so this can take a long time to complete, and optionally some data can be omitted to speed it up. NOTE: Tilemap data is an array of all the tilemap indices stored as a one dimensional array of width * height, where an x, y entry is indexed as (y*width)+x
- `dbg_slider_int(dbgref,[minimum],[maximum],[label])` - Creates a slider for an integer value within the current debug section, minimum and maximum values can be specified. NOTE: if no section is declared a "Default" section will be created.
- `dbg_add_font_glyphs(filename,[size],[fontRange])` - Adds TTF font to be used in the debug rendering, font should be added to the included files, size of the font can be specified in pixels, and a font range can be selected (glyphs must be present in the given TTF font) * -1 - Default Latin range, * 0 - Greek, * 1 - Korean, * 2 - Japanese, * 3 - Chinese Full, * 4 - Chinese Simplified Common, * 5 - Cyrillic, * 6 - Thai, * 7 - Vietnamese
- `texturegroup_get_names()` - With this function you can retrieve the names of all the texturegroups contained in the game.

## Misc New Constants

- `tm_systemtiming` - Ignore gamespeed and allow the system to control framerate

## Misc New Structs

```
TileSetInfo {
width : The width of the whole tile set texture (in pixels).,
height : The height of the whole tile set texture (in pixels).,
texture : The texture ID.,
tile_width : The width of a single tile (in pixels).,
tile_height : The height of a single tile (in pixels).,
tile_horizontal_separator : The number of pixels horizontally on each side of each tile (making the space between two tiles 2 * tile_horizontal_separator).,
tile_vertical_separator : The number of pixels vertically on each side of each tile (making the space between two tiles 2 * tile_vertical_separator),
tile_columns : The number of columns on each row of the tile set.,
tile_count : The number of tiles.,
frame_count : The number of frames of animation per animation.,
frame_length_ms : The number of milliseconds for frame animation.,
frames : A struct containing all the animation frames. Each tile number has a key in the struct, each entry is an array of the frames to use (each array should be frame_count long).
}
```

## Misc Changed Functions

* `psn_init_np_libs(titleid,titlesecret,titlepassphrase)` changed to `psn_init_np_libs(titleid,titlesecret,titlepassphrase,[enable_friends_notifications],[enable_session_notifications],[enable_presence_notifications])`
* `psn_post_leaderboard_score()` changed to `psn_post_leaderboard_score(padindex,leaderboardid,score)`
* `psn_post_leaderboard_score_comment()` changed to `psn_post_leaderboard_score_comment(padindex,leaderboardid,score,comment)`

## Misc New Functions

- `xboxone_gamedisplayname_for_user(user)` - This function returns the "classic gamertag" of a locally signed in user or a player in the current game session. Replaced by xboxone_classic_gamertag_for_user().
- `xboxlive_gamedisplayname_for_user(user)` - This function returns the "classic gamertag" of a locally signed in user or a player in the current game session. Replaced by xboxone_classic_gamertag_for_user().
- `xboxlive_gamertag_for_user(user)` - This function returns the "classic gamertag" of a locally signed in user or a player in the current game session. Replaced by xboxone_classic_gamertag_for_user().
- `xboxone_classic_gamertag_for_user(user)` - This function returns the "classic gamertag" of a locally signed in user or a player in the current game session.
- `xboxone_modern_gamertag_for_user(user)` - This function returns the "modern gamertag" (excluding suffix) of a locally signed in user or a player in the current game session. If the player does not have a modern gamertag, the classic gamertag is returned instead.
- `xboxone_modern_gamertag_suffix_for_user(user)` - This function returns the "modern gamertag suffix" of a locally signed in user or a player in the current game session (e.g. "#1234"). If the player does not have a modern gamertag or the modern gamertag does not include a suffix, an emptry string is returned.
- `xboxone_unique_modern_gamertag_for_user(user)` - This function returns the "modern gamertag" (including suffix) of a locally signed in user or a player in the current game session. If the player does not have a modern gamertag, the classic gamertag is returned instead.

