---
layout: home
---
# 2024.400 - Current Version: IDE 516/Runtime 537

Download Links: [Windows](https://gms.yoyogames.com/GameMaker-Installer-2024.400.0.516.exe) - [macOS](https://gms.yoyogames.com/GameMaker-2024.400.0.516.pkg) -  [Ubuntu (Beta)](https://gms.yoyogames.com/GameMaker-Beta-2024.400.0.516.deb)


## IDE Features
- Local Packages can now be created even when logged-out (when using a "guest" account) [4417](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/issues/4417)
- Can now define the default Animation Speed value for Sprites on an Asset layer in a room [2931](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/issues/2831)
- Game Options for iOS no longer rejects icon images which contain transparency [4617](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/issues/4617)
- Stopped adding the "..._stripN" suffix onto the new Sprite assets created when dropping strip images onto GameMaker [2963](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/issues/2963)
- A number of performance and stability fixes also

## Runtime Features
- Android has a new pre_gradle_step stage so you can modify the generated project before gradlew is run [4825](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/issues/4825)
- Better Vertex corner ID support has been added [4744](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/issues/4744)
- Stack traces are now more easily parsable [4927](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/issues/4927)

## Issues Resolved
- [2024.4 Milestone Page ](https://github.com/YoYoGames/GameMaker-Bugs/milestone/10?closed=1)

Closed issues are the ones fixed/implemented already during the Betas and Open issues are the ones left to implement ahead of the monthly release

## Misc New Functions

- `dbg_view_exists(view)` - Check to see if a dbg_view still exists.
- `dbg_section_exists(section)` - Check to see if a dbg_section still exists
- `gpu_get_blendequation()` - This function can be used to retrieve the current blend equation being used for drawing. The returned value will be one of the following constants (the default value is bm_eq_add):
- `gpu_get_blendequation_sepalpha()` - This function can be used to retrieve the current blend and alpha blend equations being used for drawing. The function returns a 2 element 1D array with the following elements in it:
- `gpu_set_blendequation(equation)` - When GameMaker goes to draw a pixel there is a source colour (the colour of the pixel we're going to draw) and a destination colour(the colour that's already in the pixel we're drawing to), so when determining the new colour of the pixel, the source and destination colours are calculated according to the chosen blend mode. Each component of the colours is stored as a floating point value between 0 and 1, and the new colour is calculated by multiplying each component of the source colour by some factor and by multiplying each component of destination colour by some other factor and then combining the results together component by component using a configurable equation.
- `gpu_set_blendequation_sepalpha(equation,equation_alpha)` - When GameMaker goes to draw a pixel there is a source colour (the colour of the pixel we're going to draw) and a destination colour(the colour that's already in the pixel we're drawing to), so when determining the new colour of the pixel, the source and destination colours are calculated according to the chosen blend mode. Each component of the colours is stored as a floating point value between 0 and 1, and the new colour is calculated by multiplying each component of the source colour by some factor and by multiplying each component of destination colour by some other factor and then combining the results together component by component using a configurable equation.

## Misc Changed Functions

- `skeleton_animation_clear(track)` changed to `skeleton_animation_clear(track,[reset],[track])`

## Misc New Constants

- `bm_min` - Min blending (Takes the minimum value for each colour component).
- `bm_reverse_subtract` - Subtractive blending where the destination colour is subtracted from the source colour.
- `bm_eq_add` - Additive blending. Luminosity values of light areas are added.
- `bm_eq_subtract` - Subtractive blending where the source colour is subtracted from the destination colour.
- `bm_eq_max` - Max blending (Takes the maximum value for each colour component).
- `bm_eq_min` - Min blending (Takes the minimum value for each colour component).
- `bm_eq_reverse_subtract` - Subtractive blending where the destination colour is subtracted from the source colour.

## Misc New Functions

- `psn_notice_screen_skip_flag()` - This function calls sceSystemServiceGetNoticeScreenSkipFlag and returns the result (true\false)
- `psn_set_notice_screen_skip_flag()` - This function calls sceSystemServiceSetNoticeScreenSkipFlag and returns the result code
- `psn_disable_notice_screen_skip_flag_auto_set()` - This function calls sceSystemServiceDisableNoticeScreenSkipFlagAutoSet and returns the result code


