## Misc New Functions

- `window_enable_borderless_fullscreen(enable)` - With this function you can enable borderless fullscreen mode which uses a borderless window when switching to fullscreen rather than making the game take over exclusive use of the display. Note that this will only take effect on the next switch to fullscreen (so if the game is currently running in fullscreen then nothing will immediately change).
- `window_get_borderless_fullscreen()` - This function returns whether fullscreen mode uses a borderless window or whether the game takes exclusive control of the display.
- `is_mouse_over_debug_overlay()` - Returns true if the mouse is over a debug overlay window or gadget, or is being used by the debug sub-systems (i.e. for dragging)
- `is_keyboard_used_debug_overlay()` - Returns true if the keyboard is being used by the debug overlay system
- `vertex_submit_ext(buffer,primitive,texture,offset,number)` - You can use this function to submit the contents of a vertex buffer to the graphics pipeline. You supply the buffer index to use, the base primitive type to use (see the constants below), the texture that is to be used, the index of the first vertex to start submitting form and number of vertices to submit. The base primitive type is only used for assigning the order in which the vertexes that you stored in the buffer are drawn and connected, but the actual data used for each of the vertexes will be that which you defined when creating the vertex buffer.
- `handle_parse(value_string)` - This function will attempt to convert a string into a handle data type, to be used when a handle has been converted to a string and you want to convert it back. Note: No validation is done on the value returned so it is not guaranteed to be valid.

## Misc Changed Functions

- `dbg_section(name)` changed to `dbg_section(name,[open])`
- `dbg_sprite(dbgrefSprite,dbgrefSpriteIndex,[label])` changed to `dbg_sprite(dbgrefSprite,dbgrefSpriteIndex,[label],[width],[height])`
- `dbg_text_input(dbgref,[label])` changed to `dbg_text_input(dbgref,[label],[type])`
- `json_parse(json)` changed to `json_parse(json,[filter],[inhibit_string_convert])`
- `json_stringify(val,[prettify])` changed to `json_stringify(val,[prettify],[filter])`
- `choose([...])` changed to `choose(val1,...)`
- `max([...])` changed to `max(val0,...)`
- `mean([...])` changed to `mean(val0,...)`
- `median([...])` changed to `median(val0,...)`
- `min([...])` changed to `min(val0,...)`
- `array_concat(array0,array1,[...])` changed to `array_concat(array0,...)`
- `array_union(array0,array1,[...])` changed to `array_union(array0,...)`
- `array_intersection(array0,array1,[...])` changed to `array_intersection(array0,...)`

## Misc New Constants

- `seqtracktype_audioeffect` - This is an audio effect parameter track.
- `GM_is_sandboxed` - compile time constant of whether game is sandboxed or not (true - sandbox is on, false - sandbox is off)

