This article details the required versions of the various tools and SDKs that this release of GameMaker requires

{% include important.html content="Do not use third-party tools versions that are different from what is written below (including newer versions!), as GameMaker won't know how to support them properly and you may give yourself build errors or even IDE instability." %}

<br>
<hr>

# Install Requirements

<br>

### Windows IDE

* Windows 8 or newer is required (Windows 7 will not work)
* Windows Server varients are not officially supported, but may work if you configure them correctly
* GameMaker itself and exported games can be run on x64 and ARM machines
* **Windows devices cannot build games for any Apple platforms (you will need a separate Mac for that) or Ubuntu (you will need a separate Ubuntu machine for that)**

<br>

### macOS IDE

{% include note.html content="Please don't use macOS/iOS/tvOS/Xcode *developer* and *beta* builds - Apple's beta builds are often subject to large changes and an issue in one version may not be present in the next update. Be aware we will only fix issues present in their release builds." %}

* macOS Ventura or newer is required (GameMaker will not start on older macOS versions)
* Whenever possible, we would recommend you leave case-sensitivity off when setting up your macOS machine (which is the default when installing macOS), as external build tools and SDKs may not support this
* Be aware that Xcode is required to be installed separately before you can build any "Apple platform" packages, and Xcode has its own minimum OS version Apple will allow you to install it on - see the macOS and iOS/iPadOS/tvOS sections below for specifics
* An Apple Developer account is required before you can use Xcode - and this developer account will need to have a paid subscription if you want to release your game or run your game on anyone else's devices (only dev-testing on your own machine is free these days).
* **Mac devices cannot build games for Windows platforms or any consoles (you will need a separate PC for that) or Ubuntu (you will need a separate Ubuntu machine for that)**

<br>

### Ubuntu IDE

{% include important.html content="The Ubuntu Beta IDE is only released on the Beta channel and is not classed as suitable for a production environment at this time." %}

* Ubuntu 24 LTS is the only officially-supported distro - GameMaker will probably work fine on other distros if you can install the .deb and the other required packages yourself, but we may not accept bug reports found when using these other distros or any customised Ubuntu kernels, etc., as we are only interested in "regular" Ubuntu feedback.
* **Ubuntu devices cannot build games for Windows platforms or any consoles (you will need a separate PC for that) or any Apple platforms (you will need a separate Mac for that)**

<br>
<hr>

### Spine Version(s) Supported

Any Spine images in your game must have been exported using Spine runtime 4.0 specifically.

<br>

### Steamworks Version(s) Supported

Please check the extension's own support page for information on which SDK version it requires - 

<br>
<hr>

# Setting Up The Export Targets

<br>

### Windows (GMS2)

* VM builds do not need anything extra to be installed by you, as the runtimes download includes everything required.
* YYC builds require you to install Visual Studio 2022 or 2019 (Community Editions are fine) and configure its installation as per the relevant section in the setup guide above.
* ARM64 YYC builds require VS 2022 specifically and cannot be made using 2019

*If you wish to use our GDK extension in order to support Xbox Live functionality in Windows games, then please note that you need to be an approved GDK developer with Microsoft before you will be able to request the extension from us or use it in your games - more information on the GDK system and applying for ID@Xbox can be found here.*

#### For simply playing GameMaker games:

* Windows 8 and newer only (games will not launch on Windows 7)
* All games are always 64bit.
* x64 and ARM64 are supported.
* Third-party extensions you have used in your game could potentially not support Windows 8 support, so please speak to the asset/extension author if you have any issues with Windows 8 support.

<br>

### macOS  (GMS2)

* Xcode 16 is **strongly** recommended if you want to release on the AppStore - Xcode 14.1 is the oldest version allowed by Apple for all notarisation uploads, so you *can* use this if all you care about is macOS support, but iOS/tvOS submission rules require 16 (see lower down this page for more on those targets).
* Xcode 16 requires macOS Sonoma 14.5 or newer in order to install
* Xcode 14 requires macOS Ventura or newer in order to install
* If Xcode is not supported on your Mac, then we will try to support you as long as we can, but Apple will eventually stop your machine from being able to send apps to other people and there is nothing you or we can do to avoid this
* All macOS apps are required to be uploaded to Apple and notarised once they have been built and code-signed. For detailed info, please see our FAQ about Apple's "notarization" policy.

**If you're trying to use an older version of Xcode or macOS than mentioned immediately above, then you should update your tools/OS, as those old versions are not allowed by Apple now. They may work with GameMaker (certainly with older versions of GameMaker), but you would be limited to testing on your own Mac only.**

#### For simply playing GameMaker games

* OS X 10.9 or later is required for AppStore games
* OS X 10.7 or later is required for non-AppStore games
* All games are 64bit-only.

<br>

### Ubuntu  (GMS2)
2024.8+ supports Ubuntu 24 and 22 - always the 64bit LTS versions of these
2024.6 and older supported Ubuntu 22 and 20 - always the 64bit LTS versions of these
No other Ubuntu versions or any other Linux distros are officially supported.

For simply playing GameMaker games: Ubuntu 16 or later is required. Other distros can usually run the games GameMaker generates with no issues, but we only state support for Ubuntu, so if you have issues playing games on these other platforms you will need to investigate this yourself. All games are 64bit-only.

<br>

GX.games  (setup guide)
2023.11 and newer: Emscripten SDK v3.1.47
2023.8 and older: Emscripten SDK v3.1.9

As part of GameMaker, everyone has the ability to publish their games to our GX.games community (for free) so that anyone else can play or indeed buy them.

There are no additional tools required to build VM projects (there are for YYC development), but be aware you must have the browser installed first in order to test your games, otherwise you will be shown a website asking you to install Opera GX.

You should also be aware of the device server which GameMaker will run in the background so you can deploy your games automatically on mobile devices you have connected to GameMaker. If you have any network/firewall issues, please see our guide about this server.

Note that this is a high-performance target much closer in functionality to Windows/Mac/etc., than it is to the HTML5 target.



HTML5

There are no additional tools required to build HTML5 projects, and the module supports a wide range of current browsers: all Chromium-based browsers (such as Opera/OperaGX, Chrome, Edge, and Vivaldi), plus Safari and Firefox. Mobile variants of all of these are supported also.

Please note that old IE 11 is not fully supported because it does not support WebGL, and some older mobile device browsers may have the same issue. However, you can usually run games in these browsers if WebGL is disabled in Game Options within your project.



Android  (setup guide)

Do not update Android Studio as soon as updates are offered, as you do not need new versions just because - and Google like to move files around, which might break your setup, so always check here first!

2024.8/2024.11/2024.13 support up to and including Koala patch 2 - Inside Android Studio, on the SDK Platforms tab you just need to install the 1 item for API 35's "SDK Platform 35", and on the SDK Tools tab you need 3 items for "Android SDK Build-Tools 34.0.0" (because Gradle 8.5 installs 34 automatically and does not support 35), "NDK 27.0.12077973", and "Android SDK Platform-Tools 35.0.2"
Android's own tools may automatically install download and install additional packages as you do your builds inside GameMaker - this is fine, allow this! The values you have chosen inside Game Options will affect this also.
Google Play requires you to use API 30 or above when submitting
Minimum SDK Version supported is 21 for all games built using 2024.4+ and was 16 in older GameMaker releases
Please note some third-party extensions may require you to raise the minimum SDK version to their requirements, as will enabling "Run Lint code analysis". If your project fails to build, always review your entire compiler log for the exact versions you require, not just the last few lines.
Note that the below information is historical/only relevant if NOT submitting to Google Play - Google Play submission requirements mean you need to use a GameMaker version listed at the top of this section!
2024.4/2024.6 supported up to and including Jellyfish - UpsideDownCake's "SDK Platform 34", "Android SDK Build-Tools 34.0.0", "NDK 26.3", and "Android SDK Platform-Tools 34"
2023.2 supported Electric Eel onwards - Inside Android Studio install Tiramisu's "Platform SDK 33", "Android SDK Build Tools 33.0.2" and NDK 25.2
All older versions of GameMaker should use Android Studio Chipmunk (2021.2.1 Patch 1) - Inside Android Studio install Tiramisu's "Platform SDK 33", "Android SDK Build Tools 33.0.2" and NDK 24.0

For simply playing GameMaker games: GameMaker itself supports a wide range of Android OS versions, but Google Play does not (and Amazon requires fairly recent APIs also). You may find that you can build and test using old devices and old API versions, but you would not be able to publish these on some stores, and there is nothing we can do about this.

All games are 64bit-only.



iOS/iPadOS/tvOS  (iOS/iPadOS setup guide) (tvOS setup guide)

Xcode 14+ does not install tvOS runtimes automatically, so ensure you do install this optional component inside Xcode's settings before you try to do any tvOS builds

Please see the macOS section's notes a little higher up this page for Xcode/iOS/tvOS compatibility and which versions of macOS you must have in order to do iOS/tvOS development.
To submit to the AppStore, Apple require you to be using Xcode 16 and iOS/tvOS SDK 18 - see https://developer.apple.com/news/upcoming-requirements/ for the latest info
As of 2024.2 the minimum iOS version supported is 13, and in all GM versions prior to that it was 10 

Our docs and the GameMaker IDE do not refer to iPadOS as there currently is no fundamental change compared to regular iOS and so GameMaker's iOS packages work perfectly fine on iPadOS. We will obviously monitor this going forward and react if Apple make a breaking change, but for now just bear in mind if you have "iOS" you have "iPadOS" also.

For simply playing GameMaker games: iOS/iPadOS 13.0 or above, tvOS 12.0 or above. All games are 64bit-only.







Consoles

Please note you will only have access to the following links if you have been approved for the specific platform. If you wish to unlock access to a console (and can prove you're a licensed console developer!), please follow our Help Article that will explain the Application Process for Console Access.

Setting Up For Microsoft Xbox One/Series Using GDK
Setting Up For Nintendo Switch
Setting Up For Sony PlayStation 4
Setting Up For Sony PlayStation 5
